---
title: Visual Studio for Database Professionals
date: 2006-09-24 23:11:00 +10:00
---

I am working on a personal project that I have wanted to do for quite a while. The project requires a database and I have been putting this part of the system together tonight. I remembered reading about the new edition of [Visual Studio for Database Professionals][0] that was blogged about the other month. I have decided to give this a run because I would like a full Visual Studio development experience as much as possible.There are two major things that I would like to get out of this new project model. Firstly, version control for database objects. I will get the project onto [CodePlex] sometime soon so that should be a good test of its version control capabilities. Secondly, a good deployment (including upgrade) model. Deployment is going to be the really interesting thing for me. How is a database project going to be built/deployed and how will the new project model cater for updating a live database to a new version.Within a couple of minutes of creating my database project, I imported an existing script. I was really impressed with this. The script I had was a script that created tables, constraints, relationships and triggers. The import wizard did a really good job of splitting the single script into separate database objects for the project. All is not smooth sailing though. Already, the latest CTP has halted my machine a couple of times. Adding a table to the project and then viewing Solution Explorer was the latest culprit. But hey, that&#39;s what you get for playing with the CTP&#39;s [:)].A couple of other minor issues that I have found so far are that trigger files are not related to the table in the Schema View window and you can&#39;t right click multiple files in Solution Explorer to get a context menu (I was trying to include multiple files after one of the aforementioned halts).

[0]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/teamsystem/products/dbpro/
