---
title: Visual Studio 2005 Performance
categories : .Net, IT Related
tags : Useful Links
date: 2007-11-02 09:15:19 +10:00
---

<p>A sure sign that I haven't blogged recently is that Windows Live Writer has dropped off my recent programs in the start menu.</p> <p>Anyway, I have seen this first set of content before (perhaps even blogged it), but it is worth including again as I have found another set of information for VS performance. Here are the goods:</p> <p><a href="http://dotnettipoftheday.org/tips/speedup_visual_studio.aspx" target="_blank">http://dotnettipoftheday.org/tips/speedup_visual_studio.aspx</a>  <p><b>Speed up Visual Studio 2005</b></p> <ul> <li>Make sure Visual Studio 2005 SP1 is installed.  <li>Turn off animation.<br>Go to <strong><b>Tools | Options | Environment</b></strong> and uncheck <strong><b>Animate environment tools</b></strong>.  <li>Disable Navigation Bar.<br>If you are using ReSharper, you don't need VS2005 to update the list of methods and fields at the top of the file (CTRL-F12 does this nicely). Go to <strong><b>Tools | Options | Text Editor | C#</b></strong> and uncheck <strong><b>Navigation bar</b></strong>.  <li>Turn off Track Changes.<br>Go to <strong><b>Tools | Options | Text Editor</b></strong> and uncheck <strong><b>Track changes</b></strong>. This will reduce overhead and speeds up IDE response.  <li>Turn off Track Active item.<br>This will turn off jumping in the explorer whenever you select different files in different projects. Go to <strong><b>Tools | Options | Projects and Solutions</b></strong> and uncheck <strong><b>Track Active Item in Solution Explorer</b></strong>. This will ensure that if you are moving across files in different projects, left pane will still be steady instead of jumping around.  <li>Turn off AutoToolboxPopulate.<br>There is an option in VS 2005 that will cause VS to automatically populate the toolbox with any controls you compile as part of your solution. This is a useful feature when developing controls since it updates them when you build, but it can cause VS to end up taking a long time in some circumstances. To disable this option, select the <strong><b>Tools | Options | Windows Forms Designer</b></strong> and then set <strong><b>AutoToolboxPopulate</b></strong> to False. </li></ul> <p><a href="http://dotnettipoftheday.org/tips/optimize_launch_of_vs2005.aspx" target="_blank">http://dotnettipoftheday.org/tips/optimize_launch_of_vs2005.aspx</a>  <p><b>Optimize the launch of the Visual Studio 2005</b></p> <ul> <li>Disable "Start Page". </li></ul> <p>1. Go to <strong><b>Tools | Options</b></strong>.  <p>2. In <strong><b>Environment | Startup</b></strong> section, change <strong><b>At startup</b></strong> setting to <strong><b>Show empty environment</b></strong>.  <ul> <li>Disable splash screen. </li></ul> <p>1. Open the properties of Visual Studio 2005 shortcut.  <p>2. Add the parameter <code>/nosplash</code> to the target.  <ul> <li>Close all unnecessary panels/tabs to prevent them from appearing when the IDE loads. </li></ul>
